## A Look into the POAP Script

You've now seen POAP in action in and should understand that a Python script (ours is called `poap_script.py`) is pulled down from the TFTP server to each Nexus switch during the POAP process--this was Step 4 in the flowchart we saw previously.

> Remember, when we setup the TFTP server, we configured the TFTP server to
serve files from the `/root/sbx_nxos/learning_labs/poap/poap_app/templates/` directory. And when we setup the DHCP server, we defined the script (boot file) for the switch to look for as being `poap_script.py`.

After the script is pulled down by the switch via TFTP, it is executed. The first thing the script does, is reach back out to the central POAP server with information about it's serial number and MAC address.

So, how does the script know about the IP and port of the POAP server? This is an operator task and a common option is to define this in the Python script.

Let's take a look at this in the actual Python script.

Open the Python script using a text editor.  It is stored here:

```
/root/sbx_nxos/learning_labs/poap/poap_app/templates/poap_script.py`
```

The section in the script that would normally need to be updated is the following:

```python
##
# USER INPUT SECTION - DEFINE POAP SERVER IP
#

options = {
    "poap_server": "10.10.20.20",
    "port": "5000"
}

```

For the lab, this has already been set.  For assurance, you can ensure the `poap_server` is set to "10.10.20.20" and the `port` is set to `5000`.

> Note: If any modification is made to the script, you'll need to execute the `/root/sbx_nxos/learning_labs/poap/poap_app/templates/md5sum_ztp.sh` script. This script updates the md5sum signature within the script. As noted earlier, the switch will compute the md5sum of the downloaded script locally and check if it matches the signature in the script. POAP will fail if there is a mismatch.

You've seen POAP at its finest allowing four switches to boot up and receive base configurations from our POAP server, i.e. the HTTP server that is pushing down configurations based on MAC Address of the switch itself.

This functionality only occurs due to this Python script (`poap_script.py`) that is pulled down from the TFTP server and executed on each switch.


Let's take a look at a few main components (Python functions) inside this script:


**`poap_collect()`**

This function sends a HTTP PUT request to the central server, using the settings we defined in the `options` dictionary. The PUT request carries the serial number and MAC information back to the POAP server.

```
2017 Jul 27 14:04:48 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %USER-1-SYSTEM_MSG: Collecting system S.No and MAC... - script.sh
2017 Jul 27 14:04:48 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %USER-1-SYSTEM_MSG: System MAC address is: aaaa.aaaa.aaaa - script.sh
2017 Jul 27 14:04:49 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %USER-1-SYSTEM_MSG: System Serial NO is: 9Y782OPGG5Q - script.sh
2017 Jul 27 14:04:49 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %USER-1-SYSTEM_MSG: Sending API request to the POAP server 10.10.20.20:5000 - script.sh
2017 Jul 27 14:04:49 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %USER-1-SYSTEM_MSG: Requesting http://10.10.20.20:5000/9Y782OPGG5Q... - script.sh
```

The POAP server uses this info, to collect device specific settings from the `podvars.yml` file and renders the configuration into the `poap_app/templates directory` from where the script was stored.

You should be able to do a directory listing of this directory and will observe filenames that correspond to the serial number of the devices after this function has executed.

Here is a listing of the `templates` directory before the `poap_collect()` method was called:

``` shell
(python2) [root@localhost templates]#ls -ltr
total 20
-rwxr-xr-x. 1 root root   183 Jul 26 14:55 md5sum_ztp.sh
-rwxrwxr-x. 1 root root 11812 Jul 28 14:01 poap_script.py
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  2372 Jul 28 14:03 conf_nxv.j2

```

After the switch initiates the request that contains its MAC and serial number, the server will render the configurations locally in the `template` directory. A subsequent listing will show:

``` shell
(python2) [root@localhost templates]#ls -ltr
total 20
-rwxr-xr-x. 1 root root   183 Jul 26 14:55 md5sum_ztp.sh
-rwxrwxr-x. 1 root root 11812 Jul 28 14:01 poap_script.py
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  2372 Jul 28 14:03 conf_nxv.j2
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  2372 Jul 28 15:22 9GA7T4WBRXZ.cfg
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  2405 Jul 28 15:22 9RT3N4WBTLN.cfg
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  2405 Jul 28 15:22 9KY5Y4WBGTL.cfg
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  2405 Jul 28 15:22 9YH7T4WBTIP.cfg
```

The POAP server then responds back to the switch with the following information:

```
{'config_protocol': 'http', 'config_file': u'9C3YE9ZC2QS.cfg',
'kickstart_image': '',  'http_server':'10.10.20.20:5000',
'tftp_server': '10.10.20.20', 'system_image':
'nxos.7.0.3.I6.1.bin'}

```

**`image_install()`**

This function, collects the name of the kickstart and system image provided from the previous function to validate whether the current image on the device matches the desired image. If not, it uses the `tftp_server` information from the previous function, to download the correct image.
   
```
Checking the current image...
Target already matches current image. Skipping....
```
   
**`copy_config()`**

The `copy_config` function will use the protocol defined by the user (HTTP/TFTP) to download the device specific configuration that was generated in step 1. It uses the `config_protocol` to make a determination on the desired protocol to use. Depending on whether that was set to TFTP or HTTP, it uses the information provided by either the `tftp_server` or `http_server` to download the configuration file defined in `config_file`
   
```
Transfering config file over HTTP...
Data collected from HTTP request
Config data copied successfully to bootflash
INFO: Ready to execute terminal dont-ask ;copy bootflash:/9YARXTR3TWL.cfg scheduled-config
```
   

> Note: The copy `scheduled-config` command is used exclusively with POAP. It schedules the configuration that the switch will use on next reload and continue with the POAP process.

```
Waiting for box online to replay poap config
2017 Jul 28 15:14:48 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %ASCII-CFG-2-CONFIG_REPLAY_STATUS: Bootstrap Replay Done.
```

At this point, the POAP process is complete and the switch will reboot into the desired configuration state.

While we only covered three of the main Python functions in `poap_script.py`, there are many other helper functions within the script that perform logging, cleanup, signal/interrupt handling, and a number of other functions.
